---
title: Forever Home
date: 2018-01-16 00:58:03 -0600
image: "/img/dreamhouse.jpg"
comments: true
tags:
- moving
- financial independence
- FI
- 'dream home '
categories:
- update
description: Why we bought a big large "mansion" on our way to FI

---
Fall 2016 my wife and I bought our forever home. This is a major life goal for us. This is where we want to stay essentially forever. We will travel all around the world but at the end always end up _home_. A large part of why we picked our specific home is that it gives us numerous activities to do once we are Financially Independent and have children.  We could have easily stayed in our fix and flip house longer or bought a home for half the price; This home was worth it. It has a pool for the wife to swim, kids too someday. A river for my father to fish (he lives with us and we love it). A long beautiful bike trail for me to bike on. It has a great Spanish-English immersion school nearby for our future children. The pool room is our workout room as well. It has a fireplace, deck, large backyard, nice neighbors, all in a quite cul-de-sac. The price is also only slightly above average for homes in the large city. So it was also a good deal, especially since it was appraised without the pool room.

Still, being frugal as I am and having such a strong drive to retire by age 30 (though I've relaxed and I'll be there around 30-33, whatever). I wanted to have my cake and it it too per se. Which we noticed right away that the basement is an in-law suite or in our case, effectively a separate unit! We could easily afford the place but like I said it had the cost of having to work another 3+ years before we'd be comfortably Financially Independent. We did some research and realized others were making okay money on renting websites like AirBnb. So we listed it on a site and others as well. We quickly got renters. Before we knew it almost every weekend was booked Thursday - Sunday.  We were pulling in 2,500-4,000 / month just renting it out on the weekend! It was amazing. Well all good things come to an end and the city decided to throw poorly defined regulations at us and we no longer could do short term rentals. This was devastating to say the least.

This post was a draft for quite a while and originally it was going to discuss us leaving our dream home to downsize; due to the struggle with AirBnbing the basement and wanting to get to FI as quickly as possible. Yet, even though that is how we felt we acted rationally and waited (though we did seriously look at a $90,000 1,200 sq ft home just down the road that I was going to buy for cash). This was around the same 1-2 month period that everything went to pot. We lost over $50,000, $4k / month rental cash flow, cars broke down and more all in one month! It was a tough month. Most of the money was lost in various ways since we do so many different things. I only say this to put it into perspective of _why_ we were seriously thinking of leaving our dream home. The story has a happy ending and we quickly got most of it back the next month; all of it and more within the following months. We then did month to month rentals, city couldn't bother us then. I've had the worst times with cities and counties when it comes to actually making $. The month to month wasn't nearly as profitable, only covering _most_ of the mortgage versus covering well beyond it.

Later we decided after a few 3 month long rentals that month-to-month, at least for us, was the worst of both world. Renters still have turn over, we don't make as much as short-term, AND they are there all the time. Typically month-to-month you could charge more than a 1 year lease but then again you aren't going to be booked 100%, though we've been lucky to have had a low vacancy rate. We were able to later get a renter that is coming in June for a quite good rate (38% higher than last month-to-month) that will sign a 1 year lease. Yes, we won't have our basement at all anymore but we find the money to be worth it. We have exclusive access to the pool / recreation room this time though so that helps a lot as well. We have gotten use to living upstairs anyways; it is a 4,500 sq ft house after all (not including pool room). We plan to separate our ridiculously large 19x15 bedroom into two rooms (we are stealing some footage from the overly large adjacent room that is currently my office and dad's bedroom). We'll then have 3 rooms. We have yet another room that we'll make that will be on the other side of the house that will be smaller but perfect for my father, he really doesn't care for a room but just a place for a bed, dresser and T.V. So we'll all have our own rooms, rooms for future children and room for me to have my own office. All while we can still rent!